Now let's finally modify the user controller update action to actually modify the user's avatar so we
will associate our new image using one to one polymorphic relationship with a particular user.
So before we do that let's go back to the post controller store action or the update action and let's
see that we actually use our specific request object so the input is being validated before we even
get to this action.
So we we can also optionally validate the input inside the action but we have this store post request
class and we can make the same for the user controller.
So let's do that.
Peach B artisan make request.
This is actually update user
we can call it update user because we do not really have any user creation.
This is handled by registering so modify this to true and now inside the rules will specify some rules
for the Avatar field so we'll reuse what we actually have inside the store post.
Now we just need to rename this as the field as we know is called Avatar.
So this has to be an image of those specific types.
The maximum file size is 1 megabyte.
But since I've said we want this image to be exactly with exact width and hate.
Let's specify them so with has to be exactly hundreds 28.
And also the hate has to be exactly hundred twenty eight.
Now inside the user controller instead of passing this request object using the request class we use
update user notice that we need this class to be imported.
Now let's implement the actual logic
so we do what we did inside the post controller so we first check if the request contains a file and
the file should be inside the avatar field.
Only then we'll try to update it.
Now we have to store that path.
So we do request file the field name which is Avatar.
And we use the storage by simply using this convenient store method to just store this file inside avatars
folder.
So we are doing exactly the same thing as we did with blog post thumbnail images.
So the name of the file will be ultimately generated.
That extension would be also ultimately added to the file name based on the mind type of this file.
It will use the public disk by default.
But here we store those images inside the thumbnails folder.
Now we'll do that inside the avatars folder.
Ok.
So the next step is to verify if the user.
We already have the model because of the route model bending.
If the user image is set because this means we have previously added an image to this user model in
those instances we just modify that path to the new one and we save changes to the image.
Otherwise
we do user image.
So this is our new relation 1 1 2 1 polymorphic relationship on the user.
And this is how you save that one to one relation either polymorphic or not so we call save and us before
we will call make on the image model.
Also notice that import that was added
so we do make we only specified that path but by mass assignment to be path and basically you can also
create just our new image instance and assign the path as you would assign it to an object properties
something like this you can do image and then image
as we did above but I prefer this this convention because it makes code shorter.
So basically.
Well if I have to write two lines and this is clear enough what this is doing I just prefer to use a
one liner.
Now this is basically all this is all of our logic and well we should see if this has actually worked.
But before we do that we have to modify the views for for when we see the form for updating user avatar.
And when we display the user profile.
So this image has to be displayed there so we can see the changes that have actually worked or not.
So let's do that.
So let's go to the views folder inside resources views.
Users first let's open the edit.
Blade BHP.
This is our image.
Now let's modify the SLC attribute of this image now we'll first check if the image is actually assigned
to the user if it is we'll call user image your URL method which is defined on the image model.
And this will generate the proper you URL.
Otherwise we will just leave it as empty so it won't look fine without image associated.
We can handle that later.
Now let's just copy this to the show template to
reformat
now we are ready to verify if this actually works.
But before we do we need some profile images and we need some place to get them from so we can try uploading
an image which is a hundred twenty eight by 128 pixels.
But I know you might have issues finding that image.
So not to worry too much about that.
There is this great site diverse UI where you can actually download some profile images to use them
on your mockups on when you are testing.
For example you have Michio Kaku here.
So let's just you know select some.
Then you can click select that it will download them all in a file and then you can just use them.
And here you can see we have specified the size that we want.
That will pass our validation rules.
So go ahead download some profit profile images I've already have some.
So before we actually create a link to user editing I am authenticated as John Doe which happens to
have an idea of one without an image.
Now I will just directly go to the URL for editing this profile.
And here we see the form so not these that we currently ignore the name changing.
So nothing will happen with this but let's upload image press safe changes and actually.
Well I forgot to do one more thing which is to do redirect so let's do that right now.
So I have to return redirect response using this helper function but now instead of directly storing
our flash message like we did here using request session flash what you can also alternatively do is
the redirect will actually return our response object which has this method where you can use with and
something to actually add something to the response so you can do with status which will add a flash
message with the key status.
So essentially this will do exactly the same.
What we are doing in this line with status and let's say profile image was updated.
Now if I will send this again method to with status does not exist.
So actually I made a mistake.
So not just a return redirect but we also have to call back
and then we can call with status.
So let's save the gingers again and refresh and you can see that I now have a profile picture if you
will visit the John Doe profile Well there was his name and the profile picture.
Now let's try that again.
So we have John Doe type that edit the URL if I tried to upload something else.
Well there are some other things we have to do so let's go to the edit blade BHP and maybe below the
submitting meeting button or maybe above it will add the errors components or errors and errors so we
can actually see validation errors.
Now I will try to upload something that has a different size you can see that our image has invalid
dimensions if we will try to modify it to something else.
That's another image I already had.
We see the flash message image is being changed.
It is visible under a profile.
And now let's go to the database.
You can see that only one item was inserted because I am also still modifying the same actual image.
Instance there is the outer generated path
so we can see it is avatars.
The outer generated name and the jpg extension that was added and also here immeasurable type.
The first one has blog post second one the user I.D. and also this is the actual user I.D. of John Doe
which is one.
So everything works perfectly.
Now finally let's also go to the storage.
The other folder public.
And here we can see the new avatars folder that was created for us.
So we have avatars and thumbnails and notice that we didn't have to do anything with that public folder.
And this is because we have a similar thing to this storage folder to storage public inside our public
folder so here you can see we have the same files.
We then have to modify anything.
So now we have just implemented one to one polymorphic relationship with an example of an image that
in the same table can hold a relation for both blog posts and images.
So you can always use that if you have some well kind of information that you would like to store which
doesn't really make sense to create two models that will basically do the same thing as we did here.
It only has to store a path so it wouldn't make sense to create two tables.
And this is one of the use case examples of the polymorphic relationships.